Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. This
is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. Now, we're
present looking at healing in the
newness of life. And remember that why
this is important is because we only
fulfill God's purpose by growth. And
that growth is in the reality of the new
creation or the reality of the newness
of life. So, it's very important that
you do pay attention. We have examined
the newness of life. It's the life God
wanted us to have from the start. That
life is only going to be fully affected
at the end. But there's the reality of
that life available to us today to walk
in Romans 6:4. So the real question is
what is available in that life today?
And we have been able to answer that by
first looking at what is completely
available in that life at the end versus
what we are told is not available today
so that we can see what exactly is left
that is available to us. Now we saw that
the entire world to come except
immortality and incorruption of matter
is said to be available to us today. So
we are told that we have that life in
his entirety today save for immortality
of our body and incorruption of matter.
So if everything other than immortality
of our body and incorruption of matter
is available it means there are other
things available to our body available
relative to matter or the cosmos that we
can walk in and indeed we began to
examine that. So we said relative to our
body there is healing available in this
life whilst immortality isn't yet
available. And we are exploring that
already in trying to understand how
healing is available in this life. We
looked at how immortality is going to be
affected in our body. We saw it would
happen by the spirit and we saw that for
a couple of texts. But it's going to
happen by the spirit swallowing up
mortality. You know 2 Corinthians 5:4
said immortality will be swallowed up of
life and God has given us the spirit as
a guarantee. So our question then is
what is available in the spirit for our
bodies today before immortality is
affected in our bodies and we saw that
from the ministry of the Lord Jesus as
well as the church healing is available
to our bodies today in the spirit in the
newness of life for us to walk in. So
having established that fact that
healing is available we took time out to
see what about natural healing because
what we're talking about as available in
life is healing by the power of God.
This is supernatural healing. It's not
natural. It's not healing by the
chemistry or biology of this world. It's
healing by something spiritual or
supernatural. And we saw clearly from
God's word that it is the wisdom of God
for for us to embrace natural healing.
God put the cosmos under man's
management for good. You know, healing
is good. It's of life and it's something
that we should aness the cosmos for.
It's like when we set up order to ensure
people are not affected by harm or evil.
We shouldn't say, "Oh, let's do without
that. Let's just brave things and take
as much risks as necessary. Maybe
traffic lights being set up in places
etc. That cannot be the disposition of
someone that understands God's word. So
everything available in the rightness of
the cosmos for our good and for our
health is of God. That's definitely of
God. So we should embrace natural
healing and we already do to a degree.
You know those who use very strange
tones for natural healing as though
sometimes comparative tones with others
sometimes despising tones of the things
that are available in natural healing
are definitely not representative of
God's word. They are not representative
of God's word. They have historically
always caused hurt and harm to people.
It is not the position of the world. God
should not be blamed for such kind of
thinking. God's power is going all the
way for people not trying to make them
worse. So if they would have gotten
benefits from the natural and whilst in
faith for God's power they choose to get
hurt or harm unnecessarily this is not
the way to go. All right. Now having
said that we said we must embrace
natural healing and supernatural healing
wholesomely. We should be wholesome. We
don't have to choose. Supernatural is
necessary for three reasons. As a
defense as a joint response against
sickness when it possibly shows up and
sometimes as the only option in certain
scenarios. So it's so important that we
do not despise the place of supernatural
and there are so many prominent
ministers from which we can see how
important it is that we are very open to
embracing supernatural healing even as
we do not despise as well natural
healing. We can be wholesome. This is so
important. We can be awesome.
Supernatural healing is needed as a
defense. Exodus 15:26 as a joint
response and as sometimes the only
option to some situations. very
important. Now with all of that said, we
have gotten to the very important
juncture in our study, which is if
healing is available in redemption, in
the gospel, in the spirit, in the power
of God, how is it affected? So we have
healing available to us, the spirit of
God is in us. That same spirit that has
immortality in it has healing in it for
us today in this new life that we are
in, healing is also there. Okay. So how
do we effect this healing in our bodies?
Is it just discretionary and up to God
to decide? I've said there is no way to
do a faithful reading of God's word, you
know, and of the life and ministry of
the Lord Jesus and of the church as well
that would give us that kind of mindset.
If we look at Acts 14 where we started
in the last episode, we saw Acts 14 and
in verse 9, Paul was looking at that man
from verse 7 to9. He was preaching the
gospel in Lisa and he looked looking
intently at the man listening to him. He
saw that he had faith to be healed. So
we can make some presumptions and I
believe it would be right to think Paul
was preaching you know salvation,
forgiveness of sins and like talking
about the defeat of sin and death and
the extended rights of what Christ has
done to even physical healing and you
know many people would have been
processing that but someone was actively
like reckoning that this means this
means I could be healed right and Paul
noticed him and he said stand upright on
your feet and he did you know so clearly
there's something in the preaching of
the gospel that stirs the desire that
stes the sense of right to healing that
you have that sense that I should be
healed. I have the right to this I can
lay hold of this. So what Paul noticed
was faith without a doubt healing was
available but it was affected as we can
see by faith we are not told it was
affected by God's discretion. All right
now we see an example similar to Paul's
in Mark 9 and 2. So in Matthew 9 and in
verse two it was said that the Lord was
somewhere preaching. Behold they brought
to him a paralytic lying on a bed and
Jesus saw their faith. He saw their
faith and he said to the paralytic,
"Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are
forgiven you." So there was a
recognition of their faith as playing a
role there. Now people might argue that
maybe later on the Lord did not make any
reference to their faith again, but
maybe his own power and authority to
heal. And we can let that slide because
you will not run out of instances where
it is very clear that I mean you
understand what I mean when I say will
not run out of instance is an
exaggeration but there are so many
there's an abundance of instances where
it is extremely clear that faith is how
healing is affected. So we wrapped up
looking at Mark 5:34 the Lord telling
the woman who had the issue of blood and
was healed your faith has made you well.
We cannot care about people receiving
the healing power of God and simply tell
them is God's discretion. I understand
the concerns about maybe people being
disappointed. It's better than not
receiving or expecting the healing that
is available for us. Trying nothing and
not being disappointed. I don't think
that's better than going for what is
available. If you don't meet up to it
one time, you could press in another
time. But you should be in faith about
what is available to you. And I know I'm
using a very general tone and we'll
press in in a much firmer way soon but I
want it to be well clear the foundation
that I'm laying. Now let's see another
instance of the Lord of healing being
affected and how Matthew chapter 8. Now
in Matthew chapter 8 Jesus heard a
particular the centurion has sent for
the Lord to come and heal his servants.
From Matthew 8:5 the Lord said I will
come and heal him. And then the
centurion sent again. So the people that
brought the report, he told them he'll
come and leave him. So he's changing
direction coming towards his house. And
then they had gone back to tell him so
at least he could prepare for the Lord's
coming, but he could send them back. I
feeling unworthy that he shouldn't come
to his house and he could just speak the
word. And when Jesus heard it in verse
10, he marveled and said to those who
followed, as shortly as it, you have not
found such great faith not in Israel.
And after he laments the heart of the
Israelites not receiving the kingdom as
much as he desired. Then in verse 13,
the Lord said to the centurion, "Go your
way as you have believed, let it be done
to you. Go your way as you have
believed, let it be done to you." So we
clearly see this healing it tells us is
affected by faith. As you have believed,
let it be done to you. Now we go back to
Mark chapter 9 and this time around we
are going all the way to verse 21. This
is the woman who had issue of blood.
This is Matthew's account. She said to
herself, "If I touch his garments, I
shall be made well." But Jesus turned
around and when he saw her, he said, "Be
of good cheer, daughter. Your faith has
made you well." There is no question her
healing was affected by faith. In the
same chapter, Mark chapter 9, by the
time we move all the way down to verse
27, Jesus departed from there. Two blind
men followed him crying and saying, "Son
of David, have mercy on us." And when he
had come into the house, the blind men
came to him. And Jesus said to them, "Do
you believe that I'm able to do this?"
And they said, "Yes, Lord." And he
touched their eyes, saying, "According
to your faith, let it be done to you."
So, I think it's becoming pretty clear
that there is no question that faith
affects the available power of God for
healing. Now the next time we're going
to come in contact with faith and
healing in the uh ministry of the lord
in book of Matthew would be Matthew
chapter 15 and this was the sophonician
woman. So I'm just going to jump to
where she kept speaking but the Lord did
not answer. Verse 25 said she came and
worshiped and said Lord help me and he
said it is not good to take the
children's bread and give it to the
little dogs. And this is just the
mindset of the Jew that the Lord was
reflecting and there's all sort of
debates about why it could be he's
deliberately setting up a teachable
moment which I think is the most likely
reason why this whole scenario happened
that he's setting up a teachable moment.
All right. And he told that well this is
the right of the Jews because you know
it is via them that God is depicting the
covenant people or his family and you
you don't have the right now of course
now those of us who are of faith are in
the category of the children who have
the right to this bread of healing. So
when we speak of give us this day our
daily bread healing is a defense and an
active response to sickness and disease.
We can speak of it in that sense. We are
always in faith for healing as a daily
prayer you know found in the Lord's
pattern of prayer often called the
Lord's prayer. So he says it's not good
to take the children's breath pray to
the dogs and she said yes Lord yet even
the little dogs eat the crumbs which
fall from the master's table. She was so
convinced that she had a right to be
healed from Jesus that she was going to
persist no matter what thrown at her.
She was sitting. She had the right. And
Jesus answered and said to her, "Oh
woman, great is your faith. Let it be to
you as you desire." And her daughter was
healed from the hour. You could see the
role of faith here again. Now, one more
instance I like to show us is Matthew
chapter 17. So, this is the last major
instance. Faith is directly mentioned
with Eden. I believe in Matthew. This
time around, the Lord was rebuking the
faith of the minister. So, we have seen
a lot of texts commending the faith of
the recipient. So now we are seeing and
we have seen one text that commended the
faith of the third parties the friends
of the of the recipients the person that
needed healing. In this case in Matthew
chapter 17 and verse 17 the Lord said oh
faithless and perverse generation how
long shall I be with you? So he was
rebuking his disciples afterwards he
rebuked the demon. Then verse 19, the
disciples came to Jesus privately said,
"Why could we not cast it out?" And he
said, "Because of your unbelief, but
surely I say to you, if you have faith
as a mustard seed, you say to this
mountain, move from here to there, and
it would move." I do hope you're
following the thought here. The Lord
rebukes the ministers for their
faithlessness. Let's look at one more.
This is Mark chapter 6. The Lord
lamenting the faithlessness of some of
some recipients in a particular
location. So he went out from there and
came to his country and his disciples
followed him. And when the Sabbath had
come, he began to teach in the
synagogue. And many hearing him were
astonished, saying, "Where did this man
get these things? And what wisdom is
this that was given to him, such that
mighty works are performed by Zions? Is
this not the carpenter, the son of Mary,
brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and
Simon? And are they not are not his
sisters here with us?" And they were
offended at him. And Jesus said, "A
prophet is not without honor except in
his own country, amongst his relatives,
and in his own house. And he could do no
mighty work there except he laid his
hands on a few sick folk and healed
them. So only few sick people got healed
there. And he marveled because of their
unbelief. So he could do no mighty work.
They were not receptive. They might not
have come at all for ministry is is an
argument. Some said they might have come
but they didn't receive because they
were in offense. Whatever the case, we
are seeing that faith is clearly being
pointed out to us as a serious factor in
healing being affected. And at this
juncture, I think it's pretty clear the
fate of the minister, the fade of the
recipient, the fade of third parties can
play a role in healing being affected.
And we're going to wrap it up here and
pick it up in the next episode. For now,
fulfill God's purpose and be healed.
Amen.
>> We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.